---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Communication

# NOTE: COPIED OVER FROM POC DOCS - REWORK THIS!


In every Restate application services need to communicate with each other and need to interact with the outside world.

## Invoke Restate services
Once you have developed and deployed a Restate service, you can invoke it by using its gRPC interface defined by the service contract, simply by replacing the target address of the client with the Restate runtime address. Restate will act as a "proxy" and route the request to your service implementation.

This implies that you can use standard clients generated by gRPC for invoking the service, and you can use standard gRPC tools such as grpcurl or grpcui for testing. No additional configuration is needed.

For more details about generating gRPC clients for your programming language, look at the gRPC documentation.

## Inter-service communication
Restate services interact with each other using a set of APIs provided by Restate’s SDKs. The APIs are built on top of gRPC to benefit from the service contracts.

Restate services interact with each other using a set of APIs provided by the Restate SDKs, built on top of gRPC to benefit from the service contract.

We support two different semantics for inter-service communication:

- Service method call: the usual Request-response semantic, where the caller sends a request and waits for a response.

- Background service method call: like the service method call, but the caller does not wait for the response before continuing its execution.

Both semantics provide exactly-once and ordering guarantees, without additional steps needed.

## Interacting with external systems
Restate provides different features to interact with systems outside your application. Generally speaking, you can:

- Invoke synchronous external systems, such as HTTP Web APIs, by using side effects.

- Invoke asynchronous external systems, such as Kafka based APIs, by using callbacks.

- Receive invocations of your services from sources different than gRPC, such as Kafka, by configuring an ingress.

For more details about side effects and callbacks, please refer to the SDK specific documentation.

For more details about ingresses, please refer to the Runtime documentation.